---
layout: post
title:  "HW-4"
subtitle: "A partially open-ended real-life maps question."
date:   2016-11-02 11:00:00
categories: jekyll update
---



### Announcements

* Please sign up on Doodle from Monday's lecture for Feedback session. For your session, please try to have your data loaded into RStudio.
* Math Talk: Tuesday Nov 8th 12:30pm Warner Hemicycle (free pizza at 12:15) <a href = "http://rudeboybert.github.io/presentations/2016-11-01-math_chats.pdf" target = "_blank">"The Statistical Modeling Of Interspecies Competition On The Growth Of Trees"</a>
* Homework 4 is now posted in the Calendar section:
    + This is the last substantive HW. HW-5 will be lighter to allow you to work on your final projects.
    + Library discussion is after Thanksgiving break.
* The homework:
    + **Question**:  DHL, a German shipping company, has a ton of money to build a shipping hub in the United States. Where should they build it?
    + **Deliverable**: A choropleth map of the lower 48 states (no Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico) where the color corresponds to the distance of the given area to the shipping hub, which is marked on the map with a large red dot.



### Strategy and Advice

This is probably the most complex (not necessarily hardest) homework I've ever
assigned. Some strategies:

* Do not attempt to code your work right away. Rather, first focus on separating the
    + **What** you are going to do: the blueprint/plan
    + **How** you are going to do it: the R coding
* Confusing the "what" and the "how" will only get you lost in the weeds.
* For example, the "what" step could be tackled as follows:
    + Draw on paper/blackboard/whiteboard what your starting data sources, ending data frames, and any visualizations should look like. 
    + Write out in 
    [pseudocode](http://image.slidesharecdn.com/pseudocode-111128151539-phpapp02/95/introduction-to-pseudocode-38-638.jpg?cb=1393513763)
    what your R code will look like. Pseudocode is informal and rough code that 
    doesn't necessarily need to work, but still illustrates completely what you want to do.
    More than anything else, writing pseudocode out forces you to think your
    plan out loud.
    + See my MATH 116 Intro to Statistical and Data Sciences Problem Set 06 Discussion <a href ="https://rudeboybert.github.io/MATH116/assets/PS/PS-06_discussion.html" target ="_blank">Tips</a> section for an example.


Also...

* I highly encourage you to work in groups on this problem set, especially for the brainstorming of the "what".
* Give it 8-12 hours total, if you don't get it: don't freak. Google interview strategy of deliberately trying to "break" people and seeing how they react.
* <a href = "{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/Effective_Analyst.pdf" target = "_blank">The Effective Analyst</a>. Highlights:
    + Slide 4: Emphasizing the full data/science pipeline
    + Slide 6: The importance of `View()`ing your data ASAP
    + Slide 10: Don't thrash! It's ok to ask for help!
    + Slide 13: Take things end-to-end ASAP, then iterate to improvement.
    + Slide 15: Perfectionism leads to paralysis. Sheryl Sandberg's quote ["Done is better than perfect."](http://www.businessinsider.com/sheryl-sandberg-lean-in-2013-2)
    + Slide 20: The (very ambiguous) criteria for promotion, which will also be the "rubric" for your final projects.



